Okay,
guys,
a very useful thing toe have when you're building the database is some data that you can,
Queary.
And to that end,
I've created this fall for you,
which you condemn.
Load in the resource is section and it's called h R file duct XLs X.
When you download that file,
you'll be looking at exactly what I'm looking at here.
Now that the movement this is just a simple Excel spreadsheet with one tab which is called
HR file on.
What we're gonna do is rename it immediately to HR database Master.
So I already have that safe.
I'm just saving over the top of it.
Okay,
Now we need to do a couple of things in this lesson.
The first thing we need to do is add a new sheet ons,
Scrooge it to the front because that's where we're gonna be doing now.
Look,
ups.
So I'm just going to rename that too simple database on.
That's that bit done.
We're gonna come back to the HR screen way,
have a slight problem in here,
inasmuch as that we have a name column and we have both the Christian name and the surname
appearing in the same string.
So we have combat space.
Phillips.
Now,
what we may want to do is insert a couple of blank columns in here on what we want to do is
split this.
So we have Connor in here and Felix in here and then Harry in here and then Mitchell in
here and so on and so forth,
then the whole day to set.
So,
luckily,
there's a very quick way of doing this in excel.
We're going to highlight the data that we want to split by clicking the column letter.
So highlighted column D I'm gonna come up to the data tab at the top on Want to choose this
option over here,
which is text to columns.
So I'm just gonna left click that in this little box here is gonna pop up Now we're gonna
leave it,
set it delimited.
We're gonna click next.
Now one of delimit er is is it will look across the entire text ring in this case commerce
space.
Phillips on it will look for a character which will delimit each of the things that we want
to separate.
So at the moment,
tab is the default dilemmas that But what we actually want to do this?
We can see we have a space between the first name and the second name all the way down.
We will choose space as they would a limiter.
And in our data preview,
we can no see that that would be split between two columns with the Christian name in the
first column on the surname in the second column.
So,
so far,
so good hit next.
There.
We want to tell it where the destination is gonna be.
No.
Currently,
it's set to absolute d one,
which is this soul just here.
I'm just gonna choose the little box and click in B one because I wanted to dump in column
B and column C and then I'm gonna hit finish so they know we have a full name in this
column so we can no change that to full name.
Full name on.
We have a Christian name in this column on our surname in this column.
So it's just re title those to first name Andi last name and they go.
So now we have employee number.
First name,
last name,
full name national insurance,
sex,
date of birth on start date.
Okay,
Now what we're going to do is we use the employee number toe.
Look up.
All the rest of this data in our simple database scream.
So?
So we don't forget any of these columns.
Here's a little tip for you.
What?
Men do it.
Just highlight all the titles hit control and see Flip back to wear simple database,
right?
Click and choose Speight and choose paste Special transposed Which is this one?
Just here.
When you click that you'll get all of those titles that were previously going across the
top on Dropped going down.
So they go in.
The next lesson will rearrange these and write some simple the lookups and start pulling
all of this data in.
Okay,
See you in the next lecture.